lateStarter

  For as long as there have been employers, there have been employees. Employers have to give employees a schedule. In the olden days, an employee’s daily schedule was dictated simply by the amount of time it took for an employee to to finish their job for the day. Today, employers have to create schedules that account for multiple shifts, hours of operation and what employees are available any given day. lateStarter is a web application that was developed to address the issue of the increased effort needed to schedule employees while also providing a green alternative to traditional paper methods. lateStarter is a tool developed to assist employers in the arduous task of creating schedules by creating a digital repository of employee availability information and providing an interface for employers to create and distribute schedules. 
    For an employer to create a schedule, they need a lot of information. To make a schedule for a week of work, an employer needs to know which employees desire to work that week and what their availabilities are for that week. That schedule needs to flexible in order to change if an employee wants or needs time off or if two employees desire to exchange shifts. After an employer has created a weekly schedule, it must be then distributed efficiently to the employees. All of these concerns have to be addressed by employers week after week and can lead to a significant amount of time and effort spent on schedule creation. Traditional methods typically involve the use of  lateStarter is designed to address these concerns by reducing the effort needed to compile schedules. 
      lateStarter has two interfaces for an user to interface with, an employee side and an employer side. The employee side has many aspects to it. First, an employee see their own schedule for the week. In addition to this, an employee can also see a master schedule that has every employee’s schedule. These features allow an employer to clearly convey schedules in an accessible and green manner. An employee can also input their weekly availability. This availability is put into a database and is used later to help create schedules. There is a swapboard where an employee can give a shift to another employee. An employee can also request time off. Both a shift swap and a time off request must be approved my an employer. Finally, an employee can edit their own profile. They can change their own password and their first and last name fields. All of these features provide employees with a convenient interface to receive their schedules from their employers and gives the employee an efficient means to give their employer the information needed to create schedules. 
        The employer side has all of the aspects of the employee side and more. This is because the employer can still take shifts themselves. If multiple managers were given access to the employer side, then the managers would need to be assigned shifts and be able to change them as necessary. The first feature the employer side has that the employee side does not is the ability to create and delete users. This can be used to keep the employee roster updated and representative of hires and fires. An employer can also edit any user. The fields that can be modified are the fields the user side has access to and any user’s access level. An user’s access level dictates wether or not the user can access either the employee interface or the employer interface. An employer can also approve or deny an users request for either time off or a shift swap. Finally the last, and most important, key feature of the employer interface is the ability to create shifts. When creating shifts, an employer can view all employees and see their weekly availability 
          In conclusion, lateStarter is a tool designed to facilitate the creation and distribution of an employer’s schedules. This is accomplished by providing an interface for employers to create and distribute schedules to their employees. lateStarter also allows employees to provide information to employers in order for them to create and update schedules effectively. Both of these aspects combined lead to an employer utilizing less effort to manage their employees. 

